Route 53:
--------------------------
Route53 is a DNS hosting solution provided by AWS.

Using Route53 you can register new domain names, such as sanksons.com.

Route53 also provides a domain name resolution service, so that domains like sanksons.com can be translated to Ip addresses.

Route53 can also provide healthchecking, by sending requests to your application to verify its reachable and healthy.

Route 53 is commonly used with ELB, so that when a request for domain comes it can direct it to ELB, which can further distribute it to target groups
and appropriate Ec2 instances.

Route53 can also be used to manage internal domain names.Internal domain names are valid only inside a VPC.

You can easily configure Route53 to failover to S3 bucket or a Cloudfront(CDN). In case it cannot route the request to primary resource.

Route 53 Hosted zones:
--------------------------
For the DNS queries to be answered you need to create a hosted zone. A hosted zone must have same name as the domain name.
A hosted zone contains all the rules(Record sets) that tells Route 53, what to do with a specific domain or sub domain request.

Aws spins up 4 name servers per hosted zone to answer domain or subdomain related queries. 

There are two types of hosted zones:
1. Public:   This is used to answer public domain names.
2. Private:  This is used to answer internal domain names which are valid only inside VPC.

Read following articles to understand how DNS resolution works and How domain is registered.
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/welcome-domain-registration.html
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/route-53-concepts.html#route-53-concepts-hosted-zone

Route 53 Record sets:
------------------------------
 Record sets live inside hosted zones and are the actual instructions that are followed to match a domain/subdomain to a IP.
 A record set consists of following properties:
 a:) Name: if the hosted zone is of example.com, then the name could be www.example.com, foo.example.com, www.foo.example.com or even example.com
 b:) Record type: This can be one of:
        1. A:     Used to point domain to IPV4 address
        2. AAAA:  Used to point domain to IPV6 address
        3. CNAME: used to point hostname to another hostname. In this case Route53 will act as aDNS resolver and will return IP of the pointed hostname.
        4. MX:    Used for Mail exchange routing
 c:) Alias: Can be used to give AWS resource name instead of IP. This is useful as IP's can change.
            The resource name can be of S3 bucket, ELB or cloudfront(CDN).
 d:) Routing Policy: 
       Simple: Route traffic to specified endpoint.
       Weighted: Route trafficto multiple endpoints based on weight assigned.
       Latency: Route traffic to endpoint which has least latency for querying user.
       Failover: Route traffic to secondary endpoint, if primary is unhealthy.
       Geolocation: Route traffic to an endpoint based on geographic location of a user.
  e:) Health CHeck: Monitor the health of application and trigger and action if required.


 

 


 


      