Virtual Private Cloud (VPC):

As the name sugests, it is a private cloud inside AWS's mega cloud, which is dedicated only to you. 

The term `virtual` means that the seperation/isolation from other private clouds is only at software level and not hardware based.

You can create your own virtual network inside a VPC and you will have full controll over it.
Like: creation of subnets, configuration of routing tables and network gateways.  



At a very basic level, VPC can be conceptualized as a private HOME Network. Any home network that talks to internet has following components:

1. Modem.    : Provides gateway to internet.
2. Router.   : Provides communication between home devices and also routes traffic to external devices through modem.
3. Firewall  : controls the incoming and outgoing traffic from computers.
4. Computers : end Receiver or sender of traffic. 
[Fig: VPC, video2 5:09]
  

Comparing the components of a home network with the components of a VPC, we can see how similar both are:

      VPC                                        Home network

  Internet Gateway                                  Modem
  Route Table                                       Router
  Network ACL                                       Firewall
  EC2 Instance                                      Computers
[FIG: VPC, video2 8:03]

Limitations of VPC:
------------------------
A VPC is limited to a single Region and cannot span over multiple regions. But can span over Multiple Avalibility zones.

Default VPC:
----------------------
When you create a AWS account a default VPC is created for you. Including components which are required to make it functional:
      1. Internet Gateway (IGW) to talk to internet
      2. A Route table with predefined routes to default subnets.
      3. A network access control list.
      4. Subnets.
The default VPC is created so as to provide easy interface to user without troubling him much with the configuration of 
different network layers involved in VPC.
Thus default VPC has everything set as allowed by default, this means:
 - All subnets in default VPC are pre-configured to be public and have route to internet. 
 - Any instance launched in these default subnets have pre-assigned public IP and can talk to internet.


NOTE: AWS provides a DNS server for your VPC, so that each instance in your VPC network can have a hostname and is able to 
communicate with
other instances wintin the VPC through that hostname.

//@todo: below limits should be placed in some others section.
Limits on VPC:
-------------------
1. You cannot have more than 5 VPC in a particular Region.
2. You cannot have more than 5 active Internet Gateways in a Particular Region.
3. Cannot have more than 50 VPN connections per region.
4. Cannot have more than 200 route tables/Region.
5. Cannot have more than 5 Elastic Ips/region.
6. 500 Security groups per VPC. 



